title: US says it struck a commercial ship trying to breach blockade and reach Iran
published_at: 2026-05-30T15:29:03
source_url: https://apnews.com/article/iran-united-states-war-hormuz-ceasefire-aeea91e1d1682e7e22321512e6e4aa35
selected_strategy: httpx_direct
quality_score: 
---
US says it struck a commercial ship trying to breach blockade and reach Iran
1 of 2
|
U.S. continues to pursue a ‘great deal’ which would make sure Iran does not have nuclear weapons, U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth told the press in Singapore during his trip for the 23rd Shangri-La Dialogue security summit. Hegseth also hailed a “new chapter” in relations with China, saying a “more collaborative” approach would guid ties between the two superpowers.
Read More
2 of 2
|
Pro-government Iranian demonstrators wave Iranian flags and a portrait of the Supreme Leader Ayatollah Mojtaba Khamenei, right, and his slain father Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in a gathering at a square in Tehran, Iran, Friday, May 29, 2026. (AP Photo/Vahid Salemi)
Read More
By
KONSTANTIN TOROPIN
Leer en español
Add AP News on Google
Add AP News as your preferred source to see more of our stories on Google.
Share
Share
Facebook
Copy
Link copied
Print
Email
X
LinkedIn
Bluesky
Flipboard
Pinterest
Reddit
WASHINGTON (AP) — The U.S. military stopped a merchant vessel trying to break through its
blockade of Iranian ports
by firing a missile into its engine room, the U.S. Central Command said on Saturday.
The Gambia-flagged cargo ship Lian Star ignored more than 20 warnings from U.S. forces overnight as it tried to enter an Iranian port, the military said. The ship remained adrift in the Gulf of Oman and U.S. forces have not boarded it, said a U.S. official with knowledge of the situation, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss military operations.
With the latest action,
U.S. military has stopped six ships
trying to breach the blockade. One was
allowed to proceed
. Another 116 ships have been redirected, the military said.
The U.S. launched the blockade on April 17 in response to Iran effectively closing the strait after
the war in the Middle East
began with U.S. and Israeli strikes on Feb. 28. A fragile ceasefire has held since April 7. Now the region awaits word on whether
a deal can be reached
to extend it by 60 days while talks would be held on Iran’s
disputed nuclear program
.
Events in the
Strait of Hormuz
, a key waterway between Iran and Oman, have shaken the global economy. Shipments of significant amounts of oil, natural gas and related supplies like fertilizer are largely stranded, increasing the strain on consumers and food producers.
Related Stories
France detains hundreds of rioters after Paris Saint-German wins Champions League
1 MIN READ
Heavy rains threaten to delay search for 2 people missing in Laos cave
2 MIN READ
Mexican designer blends soccer and pre-Hispanic culture ahead of the World Cup
3 MIN READ
The U.S. blockade seeks to limit Iran’s own shipments and further weaken its access to cash, creating more pain for its long-weakened economy.
Read More
U.S. President
Donald Trump
met with advisers on Friday but has yet to decide on whether to move ahead with a deal to extend the ceasefire and reopen the strait. Iran has said the deal had not been finalized.
President Donald Trump speaks during a Cabinet meeting at the White House, Wednesday, May 27, 2026, in Washington, as Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth, looks on. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)
Commercial traffic has quietly continued to flow through the strait, despite Iran’s assertions that it must approve any transits, though at a much lower volume than before the war.
“Any violation of these regulations will place the security of their passage at serious risk,” Iran’s joint military command said Saturday in a statement carried by state TV, warning that any military vessels trying to interfere with that would be targeted.
Iran has even
charged tolls for transit
as high as $2 million, which experts have called a violation of a principle of international maritime trade: freedom of peaceful navigation.
Qatar’s deputy prime minister, Sheikh Saoud bin Abdulrahman bin Hassan bin Ali Al Thani, said on Saturday said that the Gulf nation opposes charging fees to transit, “but for certain times when they say they are going to use it for mine clearing or some usage of the fees for a temporary time, this is something that is negotiable, and it could be something that will help the transit of the Strait of Hormuz to be back to normal stage.”
The U.S. official previously told The Associated Press that the U.S. has not found or destroyed any mines in the strait.