title: Hundreds arrested in France after wild Champions League celebrations
published_at: None
source_url: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cg7pk5j7nyjo
selected_strategy: httpx_direct
quality_score: 
---
Hundreds arrested in France after wild Champions League celebrations
3 hours ago
Share
Save
Add as preferred on Google
Harry Sekulich
BBC News
Watch: Paris police fire tear gas in clashes with triumphant PSG fans
Clashes between football fans and police across France have led to more than 400 arrests following the victory of Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) in the Champions League final against Arsenal.
Thousands of officers were deployed to curb unrest that disrupted bus, train and rail services in the capital Paris.
Fireworks and flares were set off, while several police officers were injured in the fray. Police fired tear gas to disperse crowds in the city centre.
There was similar violence when PSG won the same trophy last year,
with celebrations turning deadly.
This time, the authorities were better prepared with a "very robust, very solid system in place", according to Interior Minister Laurent Nuñez.
Anadolu via Getty Images
Flares set off in central Paris after PSG defeated Arsenal
Paris's iconic Champs-Élysées was swarmed by fans shortly after the French team won in a penalty shootout.
Footage from the city shows flares being set off, electric bikes burning on roads and revellers smashing the glass of at least one shopfront.
Earlier in the day there were clashes between police and supporters who showed up to watch the final on giant screens at PSG's Parc des Princes.
Police said six vehicles, two businesses and a bus shelter were damaged during the unrest.
According to the authorities. 416 had been arrested in the early hours of Sunday, including 280 people in Paris.
Nuñez said seven officers had been injured and called the unrest "absolutely unacceptable".
Far-right leader Marine Le Pen wrote on X: "Only in France does a football club's victory spark riots."
"Only in France does everyone feel compelled to lock themselves in their homes on the evening of a victory to avoid being confronted with violence," she said.
Players are due to take part in a victory parade on Sunday afternoon, which includes touring the Champ-de-Mars next to the Eiffel Tower and a reception held by French President Emmanuel Macron.
AFP via Getty Images
Flares lit up Avenue des Champs-Élysées on Saturday night.
PSG go back-to-back and join 'greatest of all time'
Arsenal 'pain' will fuel fire after Champions League heartbreak
Two dead and hundreds arrested in France after PSG Champions League win
Paris
France